---
slug: NEST's-RSS-FEED-INTEGRATED-WITH-CRYPTO.COM-PRICE-PAGE
title: NEST’s RSS FEED INTEGRATED WITH CRYPTO.COM PRICE PAGE
authors: [nest-protocol]
tags: [RSS, NEST, CRYPTO.COM]
---

# NEST’s RSS FEED INTEGRATED WITH CRYPTO.COM PRICE PAGE

Through Crypto.com’s NEST Price Page, you can now directly access NEST’s RSS news feed. This feature will enable Crypto.com users to obtain the latest news and updates on NEST.

Crypto.com users can stay on top of the latest updates regarding NEST’s products and services in addition to access to the latest NEST price, trading volume, live charts and market capitalization data.

NEST Protocol is a decentralized pricing oracle network, which solves the on-chain pricing problem with decentralized incentive solutions. NEST oracle adopts the market game theory to synchronize the off-chain market price information onto the chain through miners’ quotations. And combined with the NEST mining mechanism to incentivize quotation miners, making it a logically closed-loop distributed quotation system. Currently, NEST Protocol is deployed on multi-chain including Ethereum/Polygon/MAP/KCC/BNB

### About Crypto.com

Founded in 2016, Crypto.com has grown into a fully-fledged and well-known international cryptocurrency hub in just a few short years. Its crypto ecosystem consists of the Crypto.com App, Crypto.com Exchange, Crypto.com DeFi Wallet, DeFi Swap, Crypto.com Visa Cards, Crypto Earn, Crypto Credit, Price Page, NFT marketplace, Ethereum Gas Fees Tracker, and many other services. Crypto.com works with regulatory institutions all over the globe and aims to bring you the most convenient way to buy, sell, trade, and spend cryptocurrencies. The Crypto.com App allows users to buy over 100 top cryptocurrencies at true cost, to earn high interest on their crypto, to manage their Crypto.com Visa Card, and to easily make crypto payments, along with many other rewarding features. The company’s Crypto.com DeFi Wallet is non-custodial, so users can have full control of their private keys.

Crypto.com is a highly secure and regulated crypto platform with numerous security certifications and assessments awarded by top security auditors. Crypto.com has obtained the following certificates:

- ISO/IEC 27001:2013, ISO/IEC 27701:2019, PCI:DSS 3.2.1, Level 1 compliance and CCSS.

- ISO/IEC 27701:2019 Certification for privacy risk management by SGS.

- ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Certification for information security management by Bureau Veritas.

- Level 1 (highest degree) PDC: DSS standard for complying with strict requirements in the payment card industry.

- CCSS (Cryptocurrency Security Standard) — a series of strict security requirements for storing, accepting, and transacting cryptocurrencies.

- Adaptive (Tier 4) rating — National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Privacy Framework